Link to Embedding Projector: https://projector.tensorflow.org/?config=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/naatthaan/Nathan-Lee-Winter-Project/main/Med_review_config.json
Link to Code (Google Colab): https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1x8pUZqTlgH_j-MckkM-RG2k-0YwmI7BN#scrollTo=2zpEsDIrwjx1

Code:


Import Packages:

-Packages to help with coding


Import Data:

-Data Set from Google Drive

-Data taken from UC Irvine Data Repository - drug review data set


Extract Noun and Verbs:

-Using the nltk word tokenize function to only take the nouns and verbs from the review

-These are the most important words in the text to understand what it is saying

-Put the nouns and verbs from the review and put them into a data frame


Train Doc2Vec Model:

-Machine learning process, training to understand what the reviews are saying

-Giving numerical values for the words

-Gives vectors for each of the reviews left by users - a numerical value for the whole review


Visualize Doc2Vec Model and Reduce Dimension

-Uses the vectors to organize them into a 3D model

-Drugs are grouped together based on how similar their vectors are - similar drugs are closer together

-Easier to see the data and understand it

-Only three dimensions are shown - reduced from hundreds of dimensions, making it easier for humans to understand and visualize


Save Results for Embedding Projection:

-Uses Tensorflow’s embedding projector - makes it easier to visualize, interact

-The visualized data with code is harder to use and see



Tensorflow’s embedding projector uses the vectors generated by the machine and puts them into a 3D space. The regular sphereized data can be a bit hard to visualize as the points are all put into a sphere and it is hard to grasp all three dimensions at once. The U-map option helps with visualization because it clumps up common words together, allowing drugs with similar side effects to appear next to each other. This 


This data can be used to predict symptoms or side effects of new drugs or for doctors to help assign prescriptions. It can also help scientists to create new drugs safely while being able to get a sense of the side effects. For example, if a drug has a similar chemical  composition as melatonin, then drowsiness and sleep may be a common side effect. It can also be helpful in preventing dangerous drug uses, mixing the wrong drugs, or assigning the wrong drug prescriptions. If a patient has a history of reacting to a drug’s side effects, doctors can use the model to see which other drugs with similar side effects can also be potentially dangerous.
